---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1 roundup"
date:   2015-10-01 17:16:53
categories: jekyll update
---
So, we have now had two sessions on the project. We have decided on a game, a varied maze for the robot to
complete in as little time as possible, with obstacles it must tackle. We have set up a Google Docs for us
all to collaborate on, and a Facebook group to keep in communication. 

#My Strengths#
My biggest strength in the field is web development, which in this project is likely not to be needed, at least
not much. After this, I feel I work well as part of a team, but would like to improve upon my ability to push
ideas forward, and not shy away.

#Our Game#
The maze game should allow us to incorporate as many or as few of the robots potential capabilities as we can, 
as we can simply add in new obstacles that will challenge it. We need to work on the controlling of the robot. 
Ideally, we would have a player control it from either the computer or even better a smartphone, but this may
end up being impractically difficult.

We have talked about using the colour detection to detect an object and place it into the correct pot.
We wondered about there being physical obstacles for the robot to pick up in order to clear its path.
The display screen on the robot would allow us to display the number of points, most likely starting at x, 
and decrement by 1 per second, to leave the player with a final score at the end of the maze. The points may
stop decrementing when it passes a finish line of a certain colour, causing it to stop (and dance?).

Movement will be essential to navigate through the maze.
The line following feature may be able to be added. We could start 3 pieces of string in the same place, and the 
robot would try and follow, making it random for the player which path the robot took.

This leaves:  
 - Sound detection  
 - Button press input  
 - Line following  
 - Responding to an event  
 - Learning  
 - Timing control for an activity (robot is sad if maze is not completed within a certain time limit?)  


[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-help]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-help
