---
layout: post
title: "Testing on the map" 
date:   2015-11-15 18:19:34
categories: jekyll update
---
We have been working on the map itself, creating a modular maze that the robot
can solve. Using large tiles, and different colours of tape for the robot to
follow, we have begun testing to see if our robot can solve the maze. 

##Theory Behind the Maze Solving Robot##
There are 4 colours used in the maze, green, red, black and blue. Each holds
distinct significance. The robot starts on a green square, and moves along the
black lines. Every single intersection has a blue square. When the robot hits
the blue square, it will always turn left, whenever it meets brown, it will do a
180 degree turn, and carry on. This works providing the maze can be abstracted
to a tree, rather than a graph. If cycles are formed in the maze, then the robot
could enter and infinite loop.

##Difficulties this week##
The problems are arising, not through failed concept, but rather though physical
difficulties with the maze. For example a shadow being cast by overlapping
cardboard is registering as black through the optical sensor, and is therefore
causing the robot to follow it. Sometimes the turn happens at the wrong angle
and the robot becomes unaligned. My preference for solving this is to create a
more intelligent line following program, rather than the current code, with
simply makes the robot turn right when it sees brown. This works fine as long as
the robot is moving, slightly angled to the left, meaning when a turn does not
result at a good angle, the robot can come off the maze.

##Objects, obstacles##
We have created cardboard objects and obstacles. The robot will need to pick up
and reposition obstacles next to the track, and pick up and place objects in the
container at the end of the maze. Some obstacles may have time limits on them,
and if the robot cannot reposition them correctly when the timer runs out, the
game is over.

[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-help]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-help
